# Global Giving
This is a skills test for the nonprofit Global Giving. The best way to review this project is in this order:
1. Read the process overview below.
2. Review the dataPrepation.ipynb file.
3. Review the corr.ipynb file.
4. Watch the linked video walk-through of the preliminary AWS QuickSight dashboard (https://unt.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=f07cc209-5c0f-4a23-86fa-ac4100ef3a76)

## Process Overview
To tackle this project, I engaged in the following process. 

**Preparation & Process (1 hour):** First, I closely read the assignment and tried to get a sense of who the consumers of this information and the dashboards would be. Ultimately, the goal of the assessment was to create a resource useful for the Global Giving Program team, so I spent some time reviewing the profiles of the individuals currently serving on this team to get a sense of how this team works with Global Giving's organizations. I also hoped to get a sense of their technical expertise to gauge how to put together the dashboards. From there I decided that my end goal for this project would be to create a GitHub Repository that connects houses Jupyter Notebook files that illustrates the data exploration process and initial analyses as well as an AWS QuickSight dashboard prototype.

**Data Exploration & Preliminary Analysis (4 hours):** I definitely spent the bulk of my time here, as I believe it is the second-most important piece of any data project. The first more important piece would be knowing the needs of the consumer of your products, a step you don't quite get to do in a skills test, though I mimicked it to the best of my ability in the preparation phase, through a review of the Global Giving website, including staff, project pages and the Accelerator Program overview. The general purpose of this phase is to understand as thoroughly as possible the data that was provided and to transform that data to a format that can be used in analysis and dashboard building. For this first step, I only made it to bivariate correlations, but as I obtain more data and information from the Program team, I would like to begin developing multivariate predictive models for each of the regions. I discuss some of the limitations of the current data set in the dataPreparation.ipynb and corr.ipynb files.

**Dashboard Design & Construction (2 hours):** In the next phase, I began constructing an AWS QuickSight dashboard, which includes a sample dashboard with both a global and regional view with visualizations for some of the variables I believe could be impacting retention based on this preliminary analysis. 

**Documentation Preparation (1 hour):** Finally, I built out the GitHub repository, wrote the README.md file (as I'm doing now) and recorded a short video walk-through of the AWS QuickSight dashboard.

Now that you've read through this--I recommend reviewing the dataPreparation.ipynb file and then the corr.ipynb file before watching the dashboard overview:

Dashboard Overview: https://unt.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=f07cc209-5c0f-4a23-86fa-ac4100ef3a76

## Next Steps
1. The first next step for me is actual to backtrack to what I believe the first-first step should be in a dashboard design process--communicating with the end-user about their needs. What would they like to see? What questions do they have? What would be helpful to them in their day-to-day work? What do they feel like is difficult to keep track of? 
2. This is another "first step" next step type issue, but it would be learning more about the history of this dataset and Global Giving generally. What changes have been made that could result in changes in delinquency rates? Have the goals or procedures changed at all over time? This might be a place to measure effects or it might just serve as a cut-off point for cohort analysis. As in, maybe we're not comparing apples to applies when we compare 2005 Global Giving to 2018. 
3. A real next step is to go through this analysis thoroughly to make sure I didn't make any mistakes! It's easy to lie with data (accidentally, of course), especially when you're under time pressure. So, I'd like to thoroughly go through this analysis again to make sure I didn't miss anything, as well as supplement the preliminary analyses with assumptions testing, basic visualizations and post-hoc testing before moving on to a consideration of multivariate analysis.
4. Speaking of multivariate analysis, while this data is just fine for establishing correlations (i.e. less funding = greater likelihood of being delinquent), I don't know that the data is great for building models with predictive capability. I believe I discussed this some in the analysis files, but for that I'd really like to see some time series data that includes snapshots of things like funding, unique donors, online activity, etc. over time. With time series data, we can start to talk about where the benchmarks are for different organizations and review in real-time whether an organization appears at-risk for lapsing into Delinquency and/or not deriving the full benefit they might from Global Giving. In addition to building multivariate predictive models, I'd like to explore whether different regions might require different models, as well as determine whether specific regions and/or project themes attract more donors and/or funds. As it stands, we can show relationships, but we're not quite at the level we need to be to use the data to make decisions. Join me in a quick line of questioning: 

* Why do some organizations fail to renew their vetting with Global Giving? Let's say it's because they were unsuccessful in securing funds.
* Why do some organziations receive more funding than others? Let's say it's organizations within certain project themes (i.e. orgazition in South Africa with education-related projects seem to receive a lot of funds--I'm making this up, because we don't have project-level data at the moment, but let's say that we did and we found that.) For some, you could stop here and say, well, let's just push these certain project themes in this area or really focus on efforts on these other themes that aren't likely to receive funding, but I actually have more questions.
* Why aren't more people interested in funding these types of projects? This is a hard question and we probably don't have data for it yet, but it's at least an important thought exercise and dialogue to have within the organization in order to determine whether there are metrics we could generate--maybe we need more corporate partners of a different type, different advertising channels if we're not reaching the right people. A few interviews with organizations/donors from key groups could go a long way in helping us to answer these questions and ultimately derive a list of targeted actions for Global Giving.

5. After these steps are taken, I'd like to build a predictive model to help the Global Giving Program team identify those organizations most in need of attention as well as improve the dashboards, ideally making a semi-custom dashboard for each regional group within the Global Giving Program team. 

## Strengths and Interests

One of your stated goals with this acvtivity was to determine each candidate's strengths and interests. In case mine aren't painfully obvious at this point:

1. Data Wrangling/Cleaning - Frankly, this is probably my favorite part of working with data. I love exploring a new dataset, feature engineering and all that comes with it. I also enjoy the process of figuring out what data we need to answer our questions (and figuring out the questions!) and then structuring the data in such a format that we're able to answer those questions, whether that means finding or collecting new data and figuring out how to put it all together or building something useful from what we already have.

2. Data Democratization - Some people can't be a bit elitest when it comes to their ability to understand and use data--I am not one of those people. The underlying structure of what I produce may ultimately be very complex, but the end product needs to be simple and useful to the people who actually need it. For me, this means working with the people who need data/information to determine their needs and build dashboards and narratives that are not only meaningful, but also simple, intuitive and, dare I add, beautiful, perhaps even fun to use and read? I want to eliminate the fears many people have surrounding data, numbers, statistics, charts and all that comes with it. This is indispensible to make working with data an indispensible part of the "non-techical" person's workflow and daily decision-making (I'm not a huge fan of the term 'non-technical', honestly, as it implies a lack of understanding from the start). This process includes education, both in "how to use" data-driven tools and also alleviating fears and the resulting feeling of incompetence around math, numbers, etc. that can shut people down before they even get started. Before I became an analyst, I was an undergraduate instructor and then teacher trainer for five years and this experience helps me meet people where they are by listening to their needs, assumptions and fears about data and then providing content in the way they'd like it (written process documentation, videos, live trainings--I'm fine with any approach, honestly). 

3. Documentation - If you don't write it down, it never happened! Or, at the very least, it's probably not going to happen again. I can't think of a time in a collaborative setting where I wasn't designated (generally, by myself, but not always) as the secretary, note-taker, project manager, general Action Item generator, what have you. It's an entirely indispensible role in positive, productive collaborations, especially for long-term projects. I try to bring this same thoroughness, transparency and clarity to my code and teaching, so anyone who can at least open the file (yes, this is actually hard, too, sometimes!) should be able to click through and more or less tell what's going on. Of course, this isn't my best work because of our time limit, but hopefully my dedication to this still comes through a bit.


